=Release History=

Beta releases are not full featured, but they will clean your box and will generally not make a mess.<br>

*2010-10-02 Beta release B03 (SVN r132, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_B03b.hex catgenius_B03b.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Water sensor algorithm improved to reduce ticking and isolated to a separate file.
 * Extra time stamps added to logging.
 * End of washing program logged again.
 * Simplified I2C implementation
 * Shortened water sensor polling loop to reduce possible ticking.
 * Fixed resetting of seconds prescaler when setting RTC.
 * Newline added after fill/drain logging
<br>
*2010-09-06 Beta release B03 (SVN r124, tag [http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/source/browse/#svn%2Ftags%2Fb03 b03])*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_B03.hex catgenius_B03.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Washing program debug information replaced with timing related debug information
 * Missing rtc.c added, erroneous rtc.h.bak removed
 * Cat activated program triggers upon leaving only, to make sure no program is started if the cat needs more than the timeout (4 min) to do its business.
 * Worked-around linker crash, TODO added.
 * Real Time Clock added.
 * Timestamp age function added for time measurement purposes.
 * Fixed reset cause print at boot time.
 * Reset bits added, using HT-PICC compiler version 9.80.
 * Diagrams updated (and repository test from new Windows 7 installation)
 * Key lock state saved and restored in/from non-volatile memory
<br>
*2010-06-02 Beta release B02 (SVN r112, tag [http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/source/browse/#svn%2Ftags%2Fb02 b02])*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_B02.hex catgenius_B02.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Holding start button at power-up forces a cleanup cycle in dry mode
 * Water sensor muted by turning off the LED instead of sourcing OpAmp inpute
<br>
*2010-05-31 Beta release B01 (SVN r109, tag [http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/source/browse/#svn%2Ftags%2Fb01 b01])*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_B01.hex catgenius_B01.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Reject programs not beginning with a LitterLanguage CMD_START
 * Exported litterlanguage_stop
 * Pause and stop functions added to user interface.
 * Cleanup programs fixed
 * First version of GenieDiag added
 * Dedicated debug pins disabled to allow normal use
 * arm_up routine added to ROM wash program
 * Cleaned up the ROM wash program a bit
 * Call and Return instructions implemented in LitterLanguage to extend it with subroutines, limiting the required memory for washing programs.
 * LitterLanguage prepared for implementation of subroutines.
 * LitterLanguage: symbol name disambiguation, drain timeout fixed, stop function added.
<br>
Alpha releases are posted here for reference only and are not recommended to be used.
<br>
*2010-05-18 Alpha release A05 (SVN r98, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_A05.hex catgenius_A05.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Debug prints added to user interface
 * Water sensor algo changed to maximized waiting.
 * Port dump debug utility added to main program.
 * Washing program improved with autodosage, waitdosage and waitwater low before switching on water.
 * Dosage pump getter function added.
 * Cat sensor debouncing fixed.
<br>
*2010-05-05 Alpha release A04 (SVN r91, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_A04.hex catgenius_A04.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Debug output added to user interface and litter language
 * Mode saved and restored from EEPROM
 * Box state saved and restored from EEPROM
 * Cleanup program added
 * Sorted out cartridge dumps
 * New tag dumps added, including maintenance cartridge.
<br>
*2010-04-11 Alpha release A03 (SVN r86, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_A03.hex catgenius_A03.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Tools added
 * Water sensor handled by litterlanguage.c
 * Water sensor mute pin activated when taking it out of tristate
 * Water timeouts handled differently
 * Electronic diagrams updated
<br>
*2010-04-03 Alpha release A02 (SVN r80, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_A02.hex catgenius_A02.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Overflow bug in LitterLanguage program counter fixed
 * Cat detection dependent program improved.
 * Added missing dryer stop in standard program
 * First implementation of auto program
 * Catsensor changed for coexistence with I2C and Pacer
 * Work-around implemented for conflict between cat sensor en RFID tag reader
 * Fixed initial state of buttons
 * Return flags filled out
<br>
*2010-03-16 Alpha release A01 (SVN r73, no tag)*<br>
[http://code.google.com/p/catgenius/downloads/detail?name=catgenius_A01.hex catgenius_A01.hex]<br>
Summary:
 * Programming cable photos added.
 * ID restored for tag dump 3
 * Tag dumps added
 * Implemented access to RFID tag
 * I2C state machine fixed
 * cr14 RFID reader implementation added
 * srix4k RFID tag implementation added
 * Work-around for RMW conflict in catsensor/i2c implemented
 * First attempt to read the cartridge
 * Fully commented power-up with cartridge present I2C measurement.
 * Update photos, added hardware.h, updated project file
 * Scoop only program shortened
 * Removed empty testprograms folder
 * HEX file added
 * Software directory restructured
 * Retuned water sensor
 * Cartridge level added to user interface
 * Water sensor bug fixed
 * Bug fix actuator functions
 * litterlanguage added
 * Gear teeth documented
 * Flags set according to debug setting
 * Implemented the remaining part of the standard washing program
 * Analyzed the rest of the standard washing program
 * Standard washing program extended up until drying
 * Diagrams updated
 * Washing program analyzed up until drying
 * Bug fix on LitterLanguage interpreter
 * Byte code program interpreter added and program converted.
 * State machine macros reduced
 * Washing program analysis added
 * Washing program extended with partial washing
 * Washing program separated
 * Operational modi added to user interface
 * Scoop-only test program implemented
 * Bowl CW/CCW reversed
 * Button behavior implemented
 * Valve reimplemented after water sensor changes
 * Water sensor reimplemented to enable hardware overflow protection
 * Washing program made human readable
 * Timing corrected
 * Washing program measurements files added
 * Initial revision of user interface added
 * Initial revision of empty CatGenius application added
 * Separated common functionality and test application
 * Common files moved to common directory
 * Folder for common files added
 * Water sensor implemented
 * Bug fixed: Timout not expired after calling handler
 * Cat sensor made interrupt driven
 * Cat sensor extracted to a separate file
 * First implementation of cat sensor.
 * Polling for inputs added
 * Function pointers to debouncers added
 * Actuators added
 * Structurized debouncers
 * Structural pacers implemented
 * Beeper pace implemented
 * Buttons added
 * Diagrams added and components in a dedicated directory
 * My old manual relay diagrams added.
 * Jaime's mechanical improvements added.
 * New PCB specific pcb folder added. My manual PCB drawing moved from below and Jaime's electronic PCB drawings added.
 * Initial revision of catgenie120 board added.
 * Implemented timeout setting and evaluation.
 * Project files updated
 * Typo in PIC part number fixed.
 * First test with ported timer from MeterMaid project. Implemented on the real CG120 platform, shows a 0.95Hz blinking error LED. (Hey, it's a start, isn't it?)
 * Empty test program 'runleds' added.
 * Data sheets on RFID reader, RFID chip and opto-coupler added.
 * I2C data traffic logs to RFID reader added.
 * First check-in of gathered information.
 * Initial repository creation